site: Added versioned access logging document (#3849)
projectcontour/contour: site/content/docs/main/config/access-logging.md

# Access logging

## Overview

Contour allows you to control Envoy's access logging.

> HTTP and HTTPS access logs are written to `/dev/stdout` by the Envoy containers.
> The access log looks like following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, HTTP and HTTPS access logs are written to `/dev/stdout` by the Envoy containers and look like the following:
```

Author: Fixed!

## Customizing Access Log Destination and Formats

You can change the destination file where the access log is written by using Contour [command line parameters][1] `--envoy-http-access-log` and `--envoy-https-access-log`.

The access log can take two different formats, both can be customized

* Text based access logs, like shown in the example above.
* Structured JSON logging.

### Text Based Access logging

Ensure that you have selected `envoy` as the access log format.
Note that this is the default format if the parameters are not given.

- Add `--accesslog-format=envoy` to your Contour startup line, or
- Add `accesslog-format: envoy` to your configuration file.

Customize the access log format by defining `accesslog-format-string` in your configuration file:

```yaml
accesslog-format-string: "[%START_TIME%] \"%REQ(:METHOD)% %REQ(X-ENVOY-ORIGINAL-PATH?:PATH)% %PROTOCOL%\" %RESPONSE_CODE% %RESPONSE_FLAGS% %BYTES_RECEIVED% %BYTES_SENT% %DURATION% %RESP(X-ENVOY-UPSTREAM-SERVICE-TIME)% \"%REQ(X-FORWARDED-FOR)%\" \"%REQ(USER-AGENT)%\" \"%REQ(X-REQUEST-ID)%\" \"%REQ(:AUTHORITY)%\" \"%UPSTREAM_HOST%\"\n"
```

> 

Reviewer: I'd add a note here that the format string needs to end in a `\n`

Author: I've added note about `\n`.  I also linked the page about Envoy command operator explanations here in this chapter.

The JSONFields are case-sensitive, but envoySimpleOperators are not.

To use [envoyComplexOperators][4] or to use alternative field names, specify strings as key/value pairs like `"fieldName=%OPERATOR(...)%"`.

Unknown field names in non key/value fields will result in validation errors, as will unknown Envoy operators in key/value fields.
Note that the `DYNAMIC_METADATA` and `FILTER_STATE` Envoy logging operators are not supported at this time due to the complexity of their validation.

See the [example config file][6] to see this used in context.

#### Sample configuration file

Here is a sample config:

```yaml
accesslog-format: json
json-fields:
  - "@timestamp"
  - "authority"
  - "bytes_received"
  - "bytes_sent"
  - "customer_id=%REQ(X-CUSTOMER-ID)%"
  - "downstream_local_address"
  - "downstream_remote_address"
  - "duration"
  - "method"
  - "path"
  - "protocol"
  - "request_id"
  - "requested_server_name"
  - "response_code"
  - "response_flags"
  - "uber_trace_id"
  - "upstream_cluster"
  - "upstream_host"
  - "upstream_local_address"
  - "upstream_service_time"
  - "user_agent"
  - "x_forwarded_for"
```

> ## Using Access Log Formatter Extensions

Reviewer 2: As with my comment on #3694, I don't think that we should include this until it's included in the Envoy version that Contour supports.
